hi welcome to a new video on generative
AI we all know the wave of generative AI
is growing drastically and companies are
investing a lot in order to get into the
field of generative Ai and eventually
they are hiring a lot of gen AI
engineers and I know most of you who are
coming from a data science AI background
you want to get into generative AI you
want to leverage large langage models
you want to do some sort of model
building in the field of generative Ai
and many of you are gen enthusiasts who
are willing to learn generative AI now
you might have worked with large
language models you might know open AI
you might know Lama you might know
several other large language models but
have you ever wondered how do we
evaluate these kind of models now
traditionally speaking when it comes to
machine learning or deep learning
depending on the type of problem that we
solve whether it is a classification
problem or regression problem we usually
have a set of evaluation metrics right
area under Aros curve or Precision or
recall or accuracy and many other things
but when it comes to large language
models when you have a set of documents
you are training this as part of rags
and creating a chat bot eventually
asking a question and the chatboard is
responding how do we evaluate whether
the answer is correct or not well this
is where the ragas framework comes into
picture people are calling it as rag as
or ragas whatever it is but it is it is
basically r a g s now everybody knows
about rack retrieval augmented
generation and rag as framework is
nothing but the rag assessment framework
now inside this framework there are
various other things to understand what
exactly is this framework what type of
evaluation metrics do we use and what
are the practical implications as in how
do we practically implement this to
evaluate our large language models
everything will be covered in this video
so in this series of videos you will be
hearing my voice along with me there
will be another trainer whose name is
dup Saka and he's also going to teach
some of the videos in case you want to
get connected with him the link of his
profile will be in the description you
can connect with him basically he's
working with me since long time on
various freelancing projects so that's
it see you in the video in case you have
any other requirement any other
expectation you want me to come up with
any topic related videos let me know in
the comment section and we will get back
to you my name is Sait patn see you in
the
[Music]
video hi welcome to this series on
evaluation of rag using ragers to get
started with uh let me just quickly talk
about rag framework I hope everybody is
aware of rag rag is nothing but
retrieval augmented generation right we
have already gone through rag in in
separate videos I'm expecting everybody
to have knowledge on rags in case you
don't have please go back to the videos
where I have explained rag in depth and
then come back to this video so just to
reiterate few of the things that we have
already studied rag is nothing but
retrieval augmented generation right
usually when we are dealing with
generative AI large language models
augmented generation when we are dealing
with large language models usually what
happens is there could be situations
where your model is not performing well
or not answering well or could be um
giving answers without any context so
basically that step is called as
hallucination right now there are also
various scenarios where large language
models does not perform well for example
when it comes to custom data and that is
where rag comes into picture because
when you start working on use cases
where you are dealing with custom data
so let's say let's say we'll take
example for better understanding imagine
you are kind of working with PDFs
imagine you have multiple PDFs let's say
okay let's say you all are generative AI
Enthusiast willing to learn generative
AI imagine you have documents from
different domains let's say you have
have NLP related document deep learning
related document Transformers related
document generative AI related document
prompt engineering document and so on
now imagine you want to create a coach I
will I will write it down as ai ai coach
now imagine you want to create a AI
coach which is nothing but a chatbot
right it's a
chatbot and imagine you want to feed all
of these PDF documents to your chat that
means you want to create your own
generative AI chatbot using these PDF
documents now if you ask some random
questions on mathematics or on science
if they are not related to these topics
eventually this chatbot will not be able
to answer so chatbot will only answer
from these these these topics that's it
and this is where rag comes into picture
where you are using retrieval augmented
generation technique you are creating a
chatboard using rag framework and then
your chatboard is basically learning
from those documents okay without going
in depth into rag I I'm expecting
everybody to know about Rags so I'm just
skipping this part okay so now in this
video we are focusing on how do we
evaluate large language models right
because
eventually
evaluation now eventually when you're
creating a chatbot and let's say you
asking a question okay what is NLP or
let's say what is uh
tokenization right this is something
which is related to this topic NLP now
this is being asked let's say I will I
will I will draw this something like
this let's say we'll talk about the
architecture diagram here so let's say
you have multiple PDFs right NLP deep
learning Transformers generative AI blah
blah blah now from all of these 105 PDFs
what you're doing is PDF by PDF you are
basically chunking it down creating
chunks so PDF 1 chunks PDF 2 chunks PDF
3 chunks and so on and then these chunks
are eventually converted into Vector
data Vector data and Vector data and
this Vector data is basically stored in
a vector database so let's say I'm I'm
taking pine cone as an example and I'm
storing everything here right now what's
happening is now this is your Bot right
this is your front
end okay um my bad so this is your font
end okay this is a chat bot CB chatbot
now this is you who is basically using
this chatbot to ask question now what
I'm going to do is I'm going to copy
this let's say the question is what is
tokenization what's happening internally
same techniques happen you convert data
or your natural language into Vector
data and from here basically you are
going to the vector database to get all
the relevant information imagine you get
all of these relevant information here
let's say Vector 1 Vector 3 Vector 5 now
here there are millions of vectors right
there are millions and millions of
vector data you just getting three four
or five that's it whoever like whatever
is the closest answer that you're
getting now this is where large language
model comes into picture where they are
basically doing the chat completion
thing right and this is your rag
architecture now imagine your output is
something like this let's say I'm going
to use poe.com to
basically ask a question what is
tokenization and this is what your
answer is Right blah blah blah blah blah
tokenization is a processor breaking
down text to blah blah blah right now
these are all your output I'm I'm just
taking let's say this is my output okay
so let's say my output is
this one
second okay now this is my output now
now here as this output is a generated
output right this exact thing might or
might not be a part of your original
data right maybe your original data has
information about tokenization but the
wordings might not be exactly same but
you're getting this output so in this
case how would you
validate so the easiest validation step
is if you are aware of the topic you are
a domain expert you can like kind of
evaluate yeah this is good this is a
good answer because you know you are an
expert you have that domain knowledge
right so human level intervention is
needed but there are certain instances
where you might not know whether this is
correct or not right so how do we come
across a situation where we can tell
whether our large language model is
working fine or not and this is where a
framework comes into picture which is
called as ragas
so ragas is simply nothing
but rag I'm not repeating the full form
of rag rag
assessment this is what rag as
means okay so ragas provides this
feature where we can evaluate these
outputs from lar language model in form
of Matrix or
numbers okay based on retrieval
generation and complete end to end
everybody's clear about ragas let's move
on to the pp so this is going to be a
very very high level agenda in the in
this entire video so we'll be talking
about what is ragas which we already
have talked we will be talking about
confusion Matrix everybody knows about
confusion metrix because this is one of
the most basic evaluation metric when it
comes to machine learning classification
problems right so everybody knows about
confusion metrics but still I will try
to give a recap on it evaluation of data
ragas expects the following information
different types of evaluation metrix
evaluation metrics retrieval generation
and end to end so that is going to be
the overall
agenda hence forth we will be talking
about all of these things now moving
back to one more thing which is you can
also check the documentation of ragas
which is just simply type in dogs.
rag. you will be redirected to this page
where most of the things are already
mentioned like ragas is a library that
provides tools to supercharge the
evaluation of llm applications it is
designed to help you evaluate your llm
applications with ease and
confidence some of the core concept how
to get started with it how to guides
many many other things some FAQs are
also mentioned what is the best open
source model to use so of course there
is no such answer right there are
multiple models available online we
really don't know which model or which
open source model is good which one is
not good whether we should use apis
whether we should use open source models
or we should use something else we
really don't know it depends on use case
to use case it depends on hit and trial
and this is where Raga comes into
picture to tell you which model is
actually behaving well in your given
problem
statement hi now let's talk about
confusion Matrix what is confusion
Matrix confusion Matrix is a very
powerful tool used in machine learning
to evaluate the performance of a
classification model right it is
typically represented as a table as you
can see on the screen a table
that summarizes the number of correct
and incorrect predictions made by the
model so if you look at the screen on
the on the top side you have predicted
and on the left hand side we have actual
class let me try to read redraw this so
that we can have a better
understanding so this is how a confusion
Matrix looks like right we have
predicted and we have
actual so yes let's say we have a
positive case let's say I will write it
down as one and negative case and
positive case and negative
case okay now what is this that means
actually positive and predicted as
positive which is called as a true
positive actual positive but predicted
as
negative so actual positive predict
icted as negative so falsely predicted
as
negative this one is actual negative but
predicted as positive which is called as
false positive and this one is actual
negative and predicted as negative which
is called as a true negative okay let me
just verify this yes true positive false
negative false positive and true
negative now false negatives are usually
treated as type two
error okay type two
error and false positives are treated as
type one
error now before getting into the
details of confusion
Matrix can somebody tell me just pause
this video try to answer it to
yourself in the field of medical
industry which type of error is is most
critical now if I have asked you this
question potentially what you can do is
think about a use case let's say cancer
detection or cancer
prediction cancer prediction
okay now okay this is fine you the
patient is cancerous the prediction is
cancerous which is good the patient is
non-cancerous the prediction is
non-cancerous which is good so these two
are good
scenarios and that is why when it comes
to accuracy the formula of accuracy is
very simple it is true positives plus
true negatives divided by total and that
is what accuracy
means okay
so when you're dealing with cancer
prediction imagine this category the
person is actually having cancer but
your model is predicting no now if this
happens your model is predicting no so
let's say the doctor is not doing proper
test or something relying on a machine
learning model but the model is telling
the patient is good so the patient will
not be treated right and eventually the
situation will become worse that's why
false negatives are very very
crucial about this one it is less
crucial because the the patient is
actually non-cancerous but the model is
predicting as cancerous so that means it
could be like an alarm or an alert oh
something is wrong even though it's a
wrong prediction but still this is fine
but in the field of healthcare type two
error is very very critical okay so this
is what a confusion Matrix is so as I
said the most important things are true
positives that means the number of
instances correctly predicted as
positive true
negatives correctly predicted as
negatives false positives number of
instances incorrectly predicted as
positive which is also known as type 1
error and FN is the number of instances
incorrectly predicted as NE negative
also known as type two error now how
confusion see apart from this there are
also topics like recall and precision
recall call and precision these are also
very very important metrics when it
comes to classification problems right
again I would like to ask everybody
about the formula of recall and
Precision in case you know please pause
this video and try to answer so let me
write it down the formula of recall okay
I'll try to write it
here the formula of recall is very
simple true positive
divided by true positive plus false
negative so basically this divided by
this that means in simple
terms truly predicted as
positive truly predicted as
positive
upon the
actual positive
right and talking about
Precision I will write it down as P
which is true positive divided by true
positive plus false positive and this
one is pretty
much truly predicted as positive
upon predicted
positives okay upon predicted positives
so basically TP divided by this chunk
it's your
Precision now if I have to draw a simple
uh table let's say I'm doing a cancer
prediction on let's say thousand
patients so my machine learning model is
already ready with 10,000 or 20,000
patients everything is fine now the
machine learning model is going to
predict for thousand patients okay I'll
try to simply draw a table
predicted positive yes actual Pro
positive and this thing now imagine
actually there are 900 positives and the
model has also
predicted
around okay let's say 850
positives okay so act there are 900
positives
and 100
negatives I think it should be other way
around because we are dealing with you
know uh in uh healthcare industry where
the actual patient the cancerous
patients are way less than the uh
non-cancerous people right so let me
just do it this way so there are 900
negatives or
non-cancerous and 100
cancerous okay I'll do it this way now
this 900 non-cancerous let's
say so basically actually non-cancerous
let's say 850 are correctly predicted as
non-cancerous and 50 are wrongly
predicted as cancerous similarly talking
about 100 cancerous let's say out of
them 90 is correctly predicted and 10 is
wrongly predicted right now in this case
what will be the accuracy so first of
all what will be my FP my FP is 90
what will be sorry my bad what will be
my TP my TP is 90 truly predicted as
positive which is 90 what is what is my
TN which is
850 what is my FN my FN is 10 and what
is my FP my FP is 50 what will be my
accuracy my accuracy is going to be 850
+ 90 which is 940 divided by 1,000
percentage is
94% and talking about recall and
precision let's say what will be my
recall my recall is total positives
which is 90 divided
by uh total positives plus false
negatives which is 90 by 100 obviously
into 100 which is going to be
90% and precision is going to be TP
which is 90 divided by 90+ FP FP is my
50 which is going to be 90 by 140
multiply with 100 let's try to use a
calculator and see 90 divided by 140
obviously into 100 the Precision is
low recall is good accuracy is good
Precision is low so not a good model
right because lot of wrong predictions
this is fine 10 is fine but this is bit
higher especially when it comes to
healthcare domain right and when it
comes to use cases like this we usually
go for a combination of accuracy recall
and Precision Precision
score sometimes we also go with F1 score
again just to ask you what is the
formula of F1 score those who are
already because I'm assuming if you are
already watching this video you might
have already good amount of knowledge on
these basic things right confusion
Matrix is nothing but a part of machine
learning it should not be studied in
generative AI it's just that I'm talking
about the evaluation of rag models
that's why I'm rossing this points so F1
score is nothing but 2 multip with p r
divided with p + r now here my F1 score
is let's say 64 by 100 or else let's say
we will do it like
64 multiply
with9 divided by 64 +.9 which is 1.54
whatever it is okay let's say we will
calculate which is going to be 64 multip
.9 multip with 2 divided by
1.54 eventually the F1 score is also low
and that is because of low Precision if
Precision is high let's say 90% F1 score
will be high let's say 2 multiply with
Precision is .9 recall is .9 1.8 it's
going to be how much it's going to be .9
* with .9 * with 2 ided by 1.8 it's high
F1 score is high right so in this case
F1 score is low especially in the
medical industry 7 74.8% is at very very
very very very low okay now as you have
already understood confusion Matrix and
various other
things some of you might be thinking how
are we going to solve in the context of
large language models because in the
context of large language models the
output is a text right so you have your
data then you are chunking it down then
you are storing it in Vector database
and and then you have a user asking a
question then it is vectorized then it
is calling then you get the relevant
information and giving the output and
this is where your llm sits right the
output is nothing but a textual data how
are we going to um evaluate so in the
context of R the retrieval augmented
generation models confusion Matrix also
plays a crucial role in evaluating the
effect iess of models predictions okay
how how is the more important question
right
so so let's say okay there are different
type of problems that you are solving
using llm models if you are solving a
text classification problem you will be
able to relate the importance of
confusion Matrix right let's say you are
creating a model which is going to
answer whether it's a positive sentiment
or a negative sentiment so it's a
classification problem where you're are
leveraging large language models to give
output so your output will be either
positive or negative which is
easily it can be converted into a
confusion Matrix right so let's say
predicted an
actual and let's say you have 100 data
points or 100 reviews to predict some of
them are positive some of them are
negative and you can go for a confusion
Matrix to you know understand this very
simple right let's say 40 correctly
predicted as
positive right 30 correctly predicted as
negative right and let's say 20
incorrectly predicted as positive so 20
here and 10 incorrectly predicted as
negative simple so so in this case what
will be the accuracy the accuracy is
going to be
70% 40 + 30
by 100 what will be the recall the
recall will be
40 divided by uh recall is uh my bad I
keep
forgetting TP plus FN so recall is 40x
50 which is8 or 80% right Precision
Precision is 40 by 60 which is going to
be 4X 6 2x
3.66 the this is simple but what if I
told you that you're building a q and a
chatbot so in q and a chatbot you are
basically feeding number of PDF
documents and you are getting the
answers in this case how would you do
this you can still leverage confusion
matrix it's just that you need
to classify the answers
imagine you are actually getting the
answers and then you classify them
as correct answers
incorrect
answers let's say missed answers so
scenarios where you're asking a question
your model is answering but it is not
incorrect but it's rather
um how would I how would I say it's like
it's out of the context sometimes right
so as a human being you can find the
difference between Incorrect and missed
answers and then let's say irrelevant
responses now if you want to Simply make
it as simple as this correct and
incorrect that is fine as well right
this will be even more easy so as a
human being you have created this
chatboard application with bunch of PDF
documents and let's say you asking a
question and you're getting an answer
now for hundreds of these questions you
have to manually create your confusion
Matrix so out of the 100 questions that
you are asking you keep adding the
numbers oh this is correctly predicted
So eventually this is 90 um and then
let's say this is wrongly predicted
as it's an incorrect answer so so so
basically what you're doing is so let me
write it down as predicted an act that's
a correct correctly predicted or correct
answers incorrect answers correct answer
incorrect answers and then let's say 90
correctly predicted actual and the
predicted are
correct actual is correct but it is
predicting wrongly let's say in five of
the
cases actually it is incorrect but it is
predicting correctly that means it is
giving you a correct answer right you
have been trained with a incorrect
answer or maybe you have been trained
with a an incorrect information let's
say so for example in your document you
have mentioned uh natural language
processing is let's say some some random
uh answer not natural language
processing NLP is not natural language
processing it is something else maybe it
could be something randomly right but as
an output you're getting it as natural
language processing if you're asking
what is NLP right so imagine you have
your NLP document everything is about
NLP tokenization starting from
tokenization to everything but here you
have mentioned NLP is nothing but
something
right I mean some some random I'm not
coming up with a random answer let's say
neighbor lost his pet just an example
but when you're asking a question what
is NLP it is actually answering you NLP
is natural language processing that
falls in this category right and give a
wrong answer it is also predicting as
wrong this is where comes here let's say
something like this right and based on
this you can actually evaluate your
accuracy recall precision and so on I'm
just vaguely giving the ideas on how you
can leverage confusion metrics however
in depth we will be covering in the
upcoming
videos hi let's try to talk about
evaluation of data in the context of
ragas so ragas framework is nothing but
the framework for rag assessment right
retrieval augmented generation
assessment so this framework basically
takes an Innovative approach to
evaluation by eliminating the need for
human created reference answers or
ground tooth labels instead it uses
large language model themselves to
assess the quality of responses now
let's take example imagine okay let's
try to draw a simple rag based
architecture imagine you have a
documentation about let's say everything
about Australia okay like geographical
details the political details and
everything so each and every information
about Australia so maybe let's say
assume that we are extracting
information from Wikipedia about
Australia so we have trained all of this
data the data that is available on this
page we are using that kind of PDF right
and as we are using a ra rag
architecture we will be following the
same thing the chunking and then the
vector data and then storing it in a
vector space and imagine a user comes in
and asks so let's say the question here
is what is
the capital of
Australia so please pause this video try
to answer this it's a very simple
question the capital of of Australia is
can right so the capital is canbera so
we are asking this question now what
happens is from this question basically
you are converting it into Vector data
and then you are going to the vector
database and trying to get the most
relevant information and passic it to
the user right now
imagine so so when the answer is let's
say the answer here
is the capital of of
Australia is canbera can with two RS
right
can now this is the output
right but you can also treat it as a
ground truth what is ground truth ground
truth means the actual
truth right what is actually true so the
capital of India is New Delhi right so
that is ground truth let's say the
output is the capital of India is Mumbai
that is the output right that is not the
ground truth if the output and the
ground truth basically is matching then
only you can tell that the large
language model is performing well right
so I hope you're getting my point right
so that is basically the ground truth so
in the context of ragas what's happening
is you are defining a ground truth and
then you getting this output now you are
not checking them
manually you are actually using the
large language model to check whether
the ground truth and the output are
matching or not if it is matching then
it's a true positive scenario that means
truly
predicted that is how ragas framework
works so this reference free approach
marked a significant shift from
traditional evaluation methods that
heavily relied on human annoted data
sets now before ragas came into picture
what we were doing is we were actually
validating it manually right what is
manual validation you potentially can go
and search what is the Australia's
capital Australia capital is oh
Australia capital is canbera okay which
is correct so my llm is giving good
results good output so this is a good
scenario similarly you ask 100 and
hundreds of question and manually you
check correct correct correct wrong
correct correct something like this
right but in ragus framework you are
actually automating it because you are
already having the ground truth and then
you are getting the output you are using
the llm to validate the ground truth
with with respect to the
output so practically we will go through
it so nothing to worry about so you will
have more understanding of it so how
does the rag evaluation happens so the
architecture diagram is something like
this so let's
say uh let me draw few blocks so let's
say block one and then block two block
three and block four okay now this is
nothing but the
contextual
context or basically from the uh
reference
data okay in simple format the data
extracted from the PDF document then
comes user
questions then comes ground truth
answers and then you have the rag
generated answers
rag
generated
answers so ground truth and rag
generated answers are kind of matched
and this is the entire flow of rag
evaluation
and rag ass or r a g a s is basically
following this architecture
now Raga framework basically basically
expects few thing okay so what does
ragas ragas ragas framework expects so
it expects four things the first is
question what is question question is
nothing but the user query that is the
input to the rag pipeline right so
question is nothing but the input to rag
pipeline right so for an example I will
write it down
as what is the capital of
Australia now the second thing
is so the second thing is
answer okay now imagine answer is
nothing but the out put so imagine the
answer is just imagine because blindly
if you go and ask somebody out of 10
people maybe four or five people will
actually not be able to answer the
capital of
Australia many people many people say
Sydney right imagine the rag output is
the capital city of Australia is Sydney
which is wrong
right answer
so the third is basically nothing but
context what is
context context is all the information
from this Wikipedia page imagine you are
extracting all this information let's
say starting from
here whatever it is right from here and
then you are storing all the information
in a PDF
document so I'm I'm not going to show
all these steps so let's say you are
saving all this information in a Word
document converting it into PDF and then
you are using that PDF document as an
input to your rag pipeline that is
context right so context in simple terms
is nothing but the retrieved information
from the external knowledge
[Music]
external
knowledge okay and the fourth
information is nothing but the ground
truth okay now the ground truth here is
we have already mentioned the ground
truth is the capital city of
Australia is
Cana okay now what happens here in this
scenario in in this exact scenario where
your question is this your rag pipeline
is giving this output of course this is
wrong because when you're comparing with
the ground truth it is wrong right so
you are penalizing the answer basically
you're are penalizing this and how this
exact flow happens the ragas flow I'll
definitely explain uh do not worry about
it
so understood the key components of
ragas framework now what I'm going to do
is I'm going to take some example okay
so let's
say try to take an
example let me try to write down and
then I will quickly explain let's say I
have a scenario one where my question is
what is the capital of AUST Australia my
answer is the capital of Australia
is canbera and context is uh
basically um information about Australia
right that's my context right the
Wikipedia page and then we have the
ground truth so ground truth is the
capital of a Australia is
Cana now many of you might be
thinking fine
the
question okay many of you might be
thinking this that the question is fine
this is something you're asking to the
large language model answer you are
getting it context is also understood
ground truth who is the owner of this
ground truth who is writing it
so when you are working with rag as
framework by default there is an
expectation that for a certain set of
questions you must already have the
ground truth and who creates this ground
truth People Like Us who have the domain
knowledge who have the expertise they
are the ones who to prepare this ground
ground Truth for certain
questions and then when you are creating
a rag pipeline imagine you created a rag
pipeline project using open
Ai and then you created another using
llama Lama 3 and you created another
using
mixl now how do you validate which one
is good imagine you have 100 questions
with 100 ground truths
so what will we
do forget about ragas forget about
ragas we are we talking about ragas but
just forget about ragas think from a
Layman's point of view you have a set of
questions you have a set of answers now
open ey is giving you 100
answers llama 3 is giving you 100
answers and mixtur is giving you 100
answers a traditional way of validating
how good your large language model is is
to check these answers manually with the
ground truth now let's say open air has
given you 95 correct Lama 3 has given
you 96 correct and mistal has given you
let's say 92 correct so of course Lama 3
is
better right now what ragas is doing in
simple terms okay technically coding
wise we will talk about it later but
technically this checking process is not
manual now we gave an example of a
manual checking right when it is not
manual you are kind of taking these
answers and checking with the ground
truth and getting a matrix whether it is
a correctly predicted or not you are
directly using again the rag framework
to kind of validate whether it is
correct or not so in simple terms let me
explain you
so in simple terms my ground truth is
the capital of Australia is
canbera answer by Lama 3 is the
capital of Australia is Sydney for
example what is
the is it a correct prediction or a on
prediction this is what you are
basically doing internally you directly
asking the large language model to tell
whether it is correct or not you are not
manually
involving so imagine you have thousands
and thousands of questions with ground
truth you're basically passing this list
to your own rag Pipeline and you're
getting whether it is correctly
predicted or not so imagine a tabular
structure you have a
question you have a ground truth you
have your model generated answer and
whether you are correctly predicting or
wrongly predicting correct wrong correct
wrong and once you have this
then you can actually build your
confusion Matrix right predicted act uh
predicted uh correctly predicted or not
actual yes or not and then you you can
actually build your confusion metrix you
can use recall Precision accuracy metrix
and then you can evaluate which rag
model or rag uh which large language
model is best so I gave you a very brief
idea about ragas especially how the
evaluation of data works in the next
video we shall be talking more about the
evaluation
Matrix hi let's try to talk about the
evaluation metrics that ragas framework
uses so ragas basically provides you
with few metrics to evaluate a rag
pipeline um it could be comp component
wise and it could be end to end as well
okay so especially the retrieval part is
more concerned about metrics like
context relevancy and context recall so
let me write it down
context
relevancy and
context recall okay bit uh not visible
properly but I'll try to uh do a proper
diagram which will explain you better
and the generation part the generative
part basically is concerned about two
metrics which is the
faithfulness how faithful the answer is
and uh answer relevancy very very
important how relevant your answer
is okay we'll try to we'll try to get
into these things um let me try to draw
U diagram explaining about the various
metrics U that ragas framework uses
so remember in the previous video we
talked about four major components right
and what are the four four major
components let me try to draw it here
so what what are the four major
components ground
truth the
query the
response and the
context so let's try to draw a few uh
lines here so from the context to here
and from the response to here let me
draw some beautiful
lines and then from here to here and
then from here to here okay and from
here to here as well so let me try to
write it down okay so that it's visible
properly so so here we have answer
correctness
okay it should be visible answer
correctness and answer similarity okay
these are the two different metrics I
will explain each and everything uh in
details with examples and then we have
here context uh
precision
and here from the context to response is
the faithfulness faith
[Music]
fullness and
then this this line from Context to GT
is basically the context
recall okay and lastly from response to
the query is basically nothing but the
answer relevancy okay let's try to let's
try to understand each and every um
parameters here so what we have here is
we have four components right the ground
truth the outcome as in the response the
query and the context and then we have
all of these uh parameters all of these
uh metrics right
now let's try to understand each and
every metric here
so okay H so
um okay let's try to talk about answer
correctness this one what is answer
correctness
now the definition is very simple this
metric evaluates whether the generated
answer is factually correct or not right
whether this is
factually
correct or not as simple as that right
now let's say the question is what is
the capital of Australia the answer is
the capital of Australia is Sydney the
ground truth is the capital of Australia
is canbera so evaluation will be the
answer is incorrect right it is
factually not correct right and the
answer correctness score would be low so
remember all of these metrics they
usually range between 0 to one okay and
one being the highest low uh zero being
the lowest so if the score is towards
one this is good if the score is towards
zero which is bad so in this scenario
when I'm talking about uh especially
this part let me just copy paste from
the above
uh
okay let me remove it okay in this
scenario the question was the capital of
Australia what is the capital of
Australia the answer was the capital of
Australia is canbera sorry let me write
it down the capital of Australia was
Sydney
s right that is what the llm answered
the context was information about uh
information about Australia the ground
truth is the capital of Australia is
canbera so what is the final output it
is not factually correct right so the
answer correctness is basically going to
be very very closer to zero would be
very low so I'll write it down
here answer correctness
will be low or closer to zero
correct now talking about um answer
similarity what is answer similarity so
again this metric measures the semantic
similarity between the generated answer
and the ground truth okay s semantic
similarity so again in the same
scenario uh let's say the capital of
Australia is Sydney and the ground truth
is canbar in this case what will be the
similarity score the similarity score
will be again low right if the ground
truth was canbera and the generated
answer is also canbera then the
similarity score would be very very high
indicating that the generated answer
conveys the same information as the
ground truth so in this case the answer
similarity will be very low again for
first case also will be very low and
this one also will be very low very
closer to
zero what is context
recall context recall the term that we
have used here so context recall is so
sorry answer correctness and answer
similarities understood these are very
very easy and basic things to understand
what is context recall let me try to uh
write it down context
text recall what is this now this metric
basically assess how well the retrieved
context aligns with the information
needed to answer the question
correctly okay I'll repeat this metric
assesses how well the retrieve context
aligns with the information needed to
answer the question correctly L now for
example your data is trained about
Australia and then you ask something
about mathematics right so that is
irrelevant right so if you if you say
the exam let's say
um so let's say we are asking uh what is
the capital of Australia canbera is the
capital of Australia that is the
retrieval context the retrieved context
now evaluation will be if the context
directly supports the answer the context
recall would be high if the context is
irrelevant or misleading the score would
be low as simple as that okay what is
answer relevancy answer relevancy is how
relevant the generated answer is to the
questions
asked okay so if you are asking a
question about the capital of Australia
and the answer is completely off let's
say the answer is something something
else sjin
tandul has scored more than 100
centuries something like that which is
not relevant right so the answer
relevance will be very very low that
means with respect to the query what is
the response if the response is intact
semantic uh meaning is understood
semantic context is understood and
you're giving an answer or giving the
response then the answer relevancy will
be higher what is
faithfulness this basically measures
whether the generated answer accurately
affects um I would say accurate
reflects the information contained in
the retrieved context without
introducing
inaccuracies okay now let's say the
retrieved context here
is information about Australia let's say
canbera is the capital you have got the
retrieved context that canbera is
capital right generated answer also says
canbera is the
capital so answer is also canbera
context is also canbera so in this
case the answer is faithful to the
context resulting in a high faithfulness
score if the answer misrepresents the
context the score would Bel low this
metric ensure that the system does not
fabricate information and lastly talking
about context Precision which is nothing
but query or the question with respect
to the
context so this basically evaluates the
Precision of the retrieved context in
relations to the question assessing
whether the context contains relevant
information that contributes to
answering the question or not so again
remaining the same the question is
capital of Australia let's say retrieved
context is yeah canbera is the capital
of Australia it is located in uh blah
blah blah territory um the neighborhoods
are blah blah blah so evaluation will be
let's say since the
context directly answers the question
and provides additional relevant
information the context Precision will
be very very
high okay so these are all different
metrics now taking some examples if you
want to calculate the score of these
that is also possible so let's try to
take an example however
um I initially did not plan to do this
so so I'm trying to come up with five
different
statements um let's say we will take
help of uh pop.com to kind of uh
generate okay um let's say generate five
questions and ground truths about
Australia okay cool what is the capital
city of Australia let's say that's my
first question what is the capital city
of Australia let's say the ground truth
is
Cana uh the second question is let's
say um which animal okay before animal
let's say what is the largest city if
I'm not
wrong it should be Sydney but I'm not
pretty sure I think it's Sydney Sydney
and then let's say third question is um
official language of
Australia uh
English um national animal of
Australia it's
kangaro and then last question could be
um official language is done okay uh
what is the
famous okay let's say we'll write it it
down here okay let's let's try to create
my own question
um when did
Australia become a federation I think
yeah 1901 uh
Australia's
Federation date so it's 1901 okay these
are all the GTS okay that means the
ground
truth GT GT GT
GT GT right these are my questions these
are my ground truth now let's say I'm
trying to create another table with all
the generated answers okay let's say the
first answer is
Sydney the second answer is let's
say Sydney to syy and the third answer
is let's say English the fourth answer
is let's say um I'm just giving a random
answer let's say emo and the fourth
answer is let's say 1901 right these are
all my generated
answers
okay so these are my generated answers
these are
my answers now this is correct no this
is not correct this is correct yes this
is correct yes this is not correct and
this is correct right so basically three
out of five and answers are correct
imagine now we want to do some metrics
calculation so let's say I'm talking
about um let's
say answer correctness so what will be
the answer correctness here let me write
it down answer
correctness 0 1 z uh sorry my
bad 1 0 and 1 right what will be answer
similarity
so I'm calling it out I'm not writing it
properly so that I think you can hear my
voice and you can note it down in your
notebooks right this is answer
correctness this is answer similarity so
answer similarity will be 0o 1 1 0 and
one what will be context
recall context recall will be again like
0 1 1 0 1 right so you can you can see
right so similarly all these metrics are
going to be very very similar right but
but internally when you are calling
ragas framework you see all of these are
same either you use this or this or this
they're eventually same in this
particular scenario and if you go ahead
and calculate the context precision as
well it's going to be same it's going to
be not precise precise precise not
precise and precise so ragas basically
internally uses all of these metrics to
kind of valid it so um practically what
exactly happens in ragas framework we
will be showing you uh there will be a
code walk through in the next video so
that's that's all about in case you have
any sorts of Doubt or any sorts of
questions in mind uh just raise a
comment so guys now you have learned
each and every
before implementing ragas so you have
learned about confu confusion metrics
different types of metrics available
provided by ragas in terms of retrieval
generation and end to endend so now in
this part what I will do I will
Implement Raa I will Implement ragas on
top of rag r r based chatboard where I
will just create a chatboard using a
simple rag architecture and on top of
that I will I will and on top of that I
will Implement ragas where we will
evaluate our responses from the chatbot
and see what is the different different
score that I achieved during this for
evaluation so guys we will do this thing
in collab and let me this is the guys
collab notebook link which I have
provided so you can go through this and
you can visit the collab notebook so for
you I will just code each and everything
line by line to Showcase you so for that
guys this is my Google collab guys which
I have from this I have just set up my
uh open environment variable basically I
using open AP key so I have just done
open a environment variable
setup so
guys first of all let me import import
some of the libraries which I
need so let me install before importing
so first of all I need to install pip
install hyph Q hyphen Q is that is for
qu I don't want that so to
basically to basically just show each
and everything it is
downloading L chain apart from
there let me install ragas that
is the main thing for which we
are apart from this what I need to
install I need to install
F
CPU and I need to
install Lang
chain open
and at last what I need I need
pick
to
cam so I need to install all these five
things
guys so in meantime guys it is
installing let me show what is the data
on which I am creating a rag chatbot
guys so the data is guys State of Union
txt file this is basically a US White
House Press release where it talks about
various kind of
basically uh conversation that uh occur
in White House so this is basically past
President Joe
Biden conversation guys so on top of
this we will create
our rack chatboard so we
will provide you each and everything
guys this collab notebook link and this
data set as well so let's focus on the
concept guys building the rag
application and implementing ragas on
top of
that
tick oh spelling mistake guys tick
token so guys first of
all we have to follow basic I have I'm
building basic rag based chatboard so we
have to follow the rag architecture so
for that what we need we need our data
we need to split that our data into
chunks and we have to say we have to
convert that data into embeddings and
store that into Vector database so from
there user query and from the
context from here for just using a rag
basically what we will do uh user query
and most relevant context from the
vector database will pass to my llm and
on top of that llm will respond me with
answer guys so first of all what I will
do let me import
from lanin
do
docu
me moders
import what I need to UT in import
text
loader apart from this I need to
from lanen do text
splitter I need to import
recursive de cursive character
text splitter and from Lang chain
underscore open
a
import
check
open AI so I need to install these three
thing guys so first of all what we need
we need to load the data so for that
loader loader is equals to text loader
as my data is in the txt format and I
have to give the path for this guys so
the I have to just copy the file
path so I will just pass the path of the
text file and my
document is equals to loader
load so I have loaded my data so the
next step is to split that data into
chunks
chuning the
data so text splitter is equals to
recursive character text splitter I have
to pass what chunk size
so my chunk size will be 500 and my
chunk
overlap equals to
50 so after this my chunks will
be chunks will be equals to text SP
dot
split split underscore
document documents and I have to pass my
document so if I see chunks
guys and see guys we
have splitted our data into small small
chunks after this what guys what we need
to
do so let me just remove this yeah so
after this I have to basically convert
this data into embeddings and load that
embeddings to my Vector database so for
that work from Lang
chain
_
import open a
embedding open
AI embeddings and from here my
embedding embeddings will
be uh open a embedding sty so these this
is my embedding guys and now
from Lang chain
do community
Community
dot Vector
stor I need to
import f a
SS f a
SS I need to import F from
langore Community guys I need to import
F and my Vector
database Vector DB is equals to
F
dot promore
documents documents and I need to pass
chunks and my
embeddings so this will take time so
after this I have to give the retriever
what is my
retriever is equals to Vector DB do s
underscore r i e v e r retriever so this
is my retriever
guys now I have to Define my
llm defining LM so here I'm using guys
here I'm
using open model you can use any free
large language model that is available
from you either from Gro amaama J any
free llm you can use so for better
result I'm using
C chat open
and temperature will
be
0.6 so this is my
llm now I have to Define my
prompt Define the
define template so
my template will
be so my template will be
this so this is my template you are an
assistant for question answering task
use the following piece of retrieve
context to answer the question if you
don't know the answer just say you don't
know use two sentences maximum and keep
answer concise question and here I will
pass user question and context that is
from that is retriever from Vector
DB after
this uh I will create a chain using LCL
Lang chain expression language so for
that
from L chain dot prompts
prompts I need to
import
chat prom
template
and from lch
do
schema
Dot runable
I need to
import
runable pass
through from lanin
do Kima dot output
pars output uncore
parer I need to
import St Str
output
parel so I need to import these things
so let me first Define my prompt so my
prompt will
be chat prom
template I need to
pass DOT
from uh that is chore template
and here I need to pass my
template so this is my prompt and
now I will
setting setting
up
rag
pipeline so for that my
chain chain
is uh like this I have to create and
here what I need I need to create a
dictionary here I will pass
context that
is Retriever and here I have to pass
C and that is runable pass
through and now what I need to pass I
need to pass
prompt I need to pass
llm I need to pass St Str output
parel so this is my LCL chain which I
have
created let me run this yeah I have
successfully run this chain so let me
just first check whether let me just
invoke this chain do
invoke so I will ask just question from
the document only what did President say
about justic
Breer so let me hit
enter So This Is The Answer guys so the
thing which I have done presently is
creating a rag implementing rag
architecture on my txt file so here I
have not basically use any session or
memory concept you can use from your end
so my focus is on to how you can
Implement ragas on top of this so that's
that's why I have just created a basic
rag architecture so now what thing what
thing I will do I will Implement a rag
architecture on this ragas I will
Implement ragas on top of
this so first of all let me Define some
questions so give I will give some list
of questions
so let me just give the list of
questions uh that I will ask so these
are three
questions which I asked from basically
my
I will ask from my llm these three
questions so and after this I have to
pass ground truth you know ground truth
the human given answer that is human
given answer that is human anotated
answer so my ground
truth my ground truth will
be this so let me just give you the
ground truth
also so the ground truth basically
represent human annotated
answer which
human basically me human give done this
responded to this and what I need I need
answer which will be given by llm so I
have to create an empty list and my
context that is also from LL basically
based on the question I will get so let
me hit enter now what I will do I will
just do
inference
for quy in
questions so let me give this as
questions and this is ground truth
so for query in
questions that is I am uh I am applying
for loop on this
questions and here
answer dot basically I'm appending
answer uh
chain do
invoke and here I will pass my
query after this I have
to basically get context also so context
do append here I need to
pass doc
dot
pageor
content for
docs basically my docs. page content for
docs in
retriever dodore
r e l e v e v a n t relevant
documents and here I will pass my
query so this thing has completed let me
just check
by so this is the context and which
which basically most relevant context
based on the user query that is by
cosine similarity we get this thing and
let me check answers also what answers
whether the answer is appended to this
list or
not so this is the answers or the
response from my llm and this is human
annotated
responses now we have all these four
things so in the earlier phas also I
told that ragas expect these four or
three kind of information after that
only we can Implement ragas so
now what I will do let me just first
remove this
so to D so I have to
basically convert this into a data set
format basically I have to manage this I
cannot directly pass this to Raga so I
have to handle this so for that
what I need this is my data I creating
the dictionary for all these four
my uh for my question uh question answer
Conta and ground truth so
my question will
be
questions and here my ground truth
TR
is ground truth and here my
answer is answers that is answer
only and here my
context context
is context so I have created a
dictionary for all these four
things so let me just hit enter now what
I will do I will just pass this thing to
data set so from data
set from data set
import
data
set and my data
set is equals to
data
set
dot so guys I think this D's
Capital
dot
promore dict basically I have converted
all these four into D so I need to pass
my data
and if I see data
set so guys see this is I have converted
into data set format type guys my all
these four things uh this is my question
ground truth answer and context and
number of rows that is three basically
the length of the list basically I have
asked three questions
only now what I need to
do so from I need to import from
ragas now guys focus on this this thing
now I'm implementing ragas uh matrices
on top of my rag architecture so from
ragas I need to imput I need to inut
evaluate and
from ragas do
matrices I need to
import what I need to import all these
four matrices which I'm using in this
example
so I need faithfulness answer relevancy
context recall and context Precision so
these all four matrices I required in
this
example so it
is a Al yeah it is evaluate so I have
given the wrong spelling so I have
imported all this thing so now my
result result is equal
to evaluate and here I need to pass my
data set that
is data set equals to data set and here
apart from this I have to pass my Matrix
so my matrices is equals to I need to
pass the list of my matrices so the my
list of the matrices is this which I
have
imported so these are the all the
matrices which I required so context
Precision F context
recall faithfulness and answer
relevancy and here after that what I
need to pass I need to pass my llm is
equals to
llm LM equals to
llm and my embedding
embeddings is equals to embeddings and I
have to
enter so basically it is on the back end
it is performing all the evaluation and
each and everything and it will give me
the result so if I call
result if I just call
result see guys it is giv me the
evaluation score that is the
faithfulness is one answer relevancy is
one basically how my answer the
responses from llm are accurate or not
so it is giving me that thing now we can
evaluate our rag architecture we are not
just blindly uh considering the
responses which are given by llm no now
I will also what I will do I will
convert this into a data basically
Panda's data frame so
result dot two underscore
pandas and if I show you the
DF see guys see my user input my
relevant context response and references
and these all are my score with respect
to this user input this is the context
from our Vector database this is the
response response from my lln that is
answered and this reference is a ground
truth so on based of this the Precision
is one recall is one so my model is
performing performing
ex best basically good my model
performance is good guys so I will
accept this model if suppose the model
basically the context Precision score
recall the answer is like 0.4 0.5 so I
need to change the approach of retrieval
so I either I have to use some different
llm or some different uh basically Al uh
context basically which is fetching from
Vector database some different technique
I have to use so basically we are
evaluating our rag
architecture so this is guys this is a
in this example I have shown you how you
can Implement ragas on top of the rag
architecture so
[Music]
he